---
title: "Ukrainian national costume exhibition was held in Tokyo"
details: "The exhibition presented 17 original costumes from 16 regions of Ukraine, as well as Rushnyk (embroidered cloth) from Central Ukraine."

---

An exhibition of Ukrainian costumes was held on November 18-22 in the gallery of Bunka Gakuen in Tokyo. The exhibition presented 17 original costumes from 16 regions of Ukraine, as well as Rushnyk (embroidered cloth) from Central Ukraine.

This is just a small part of a large collection of Olena Skrypka, who has been collecting these costumes for 25 years from all regions of Ukraine. We are very glad that we could showcase this collection in Japan, feel the Ukrainian color and get acquainted with the regional features of the costumes.

According to the author of the collection, Olena Skrypka, she began to collect this collection because she felt an inner need to preserve and pass on to the next generations what was part of the identity for Ukrainians. The Ukrainian traditional costume carries the energy of generations and it is through it that you can see the bright and charming soul of the Ukrainian people. We must cherish and cherish this legacy in order to be one and strong nation.

A lecture was held during the exhibition about the particulars of the Ukrainian costume, masterclasses for making Motanka (rag doll), beading and embroidery classes.

This project was in preparation by the Ukrainian community in Japan for the last three years. We are very happy that this project has been realized thanks to the coordinated cooperation of the Embassy of Ukraine in Japan and Bunka Gakuen.
